Add guide for writing stories (#903)
guardian/source: docs/10-stories.md

# Stories

Source uses [storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) for its API documentation as well as for visual regression testing.

The Source storybook can be run locally using `yarn storybook`

## Story Configuration

> 1. Story files should either be names `stories.tsx` or `MyComponent.stories.tsx`

Author: Should we just have `MyComponent.stories.tsx` everywhere? Does that also rely on having `MyComponent.tsx` everywhere and `index.ts` files that only contain exports (even in packages with a single component)?

Reviewer: i think is the approach i'd favour. it's also where we plan to be in v4 i think? i've taken this approach so far with the branding and accordion ones and i dont think it was too disruptive

Author: I'll open a PR to make this consistent across the components that have already been migrated.

Reviewer 2: How do we feel about components with lots and lots of stories, like `<Radio>`? (see #902) Currently, stories are split into separate files and grouped vaguely by the prop the stories are demonstrating. Do we want to collapse all these stories into a single file?

Author: I've started #905 to modify the components that we've already migrated API docs for to conform with these recommendations.

On multiple vs one file, I started moving all of the radio stories into one file (well, one each for `Radio` and `RadioGroup`) and then decided against it but I'm leaning back towards it now. I've also added some card around reducing duplication in stories via [decorators](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/writing-stories/decorators#story-decorators) and [templates](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/writing-stories/decorators#story-decorators) which would make the single files less unwieldy.

Author: https://github.com/guardian/source/pull/902/commits/af04304ebe1f8a41b00247af892afb6483fd8fa5 in #902 consolidates the `Radio` and `RadioGroup` stories into one file per component

Reviewer: 👍 from me for one `stories` file per component

> 1. Story titles should follow the pattern `Source/${package}/${component}` e.g. `Source/src-radio/RadioGroup`

Reviewer: or `Editorial/*/*` (for now)

1. Each component should have a Demo story which is designed for documentation purposes and a series of stories detailing specific cases for visual regression testing
1. Stories should have PascalCase names
1. The `args` property should be passed to all stories so that the source code is displayed on the docs page
1. Props should all be commented to autofill the args table

> 1. Components should all have doc strings to auto fill the docs page (see [example](#example) below)

Reviewer: did you mean as comments?

```suggestion
1. Components should all have JSDoc comments to auto fill the docs page (see [example](#example) below)
```

> 1. Controls should be disabled for all stories except the Demo story

Reviewer: this is an interesting one. you can use the JSDoc `@ignore` comment to hide controls (example in the [accordion](https://github.com/guardian/source/blob/31af12ae2574addae2e75bd349c92f7e51a0f545/src/core/components/accordion/AccordionRow.tsx#L38), which also gives you a place to add comments explaining why. 

i think i prefer this, but is it doing the same thing?

Author: Disabling the controls for the non-demo stories removes the whole controls tab from those stories. For those stories at the moment, we're hard coding the args we want, rather than using `Story.args = {...}`. This means that the controls don't actually work for any of the hard coded values. I opted for removing the controls tab as it's confusing to have non-working controls. An alternative would be to use `Story.args = {...}` everywhere so that the controls did work. I didn't go for this as it was more effort and these stories are predominantly for visual regression testing but happy to go with this approach instead.

The following point is disabling an individual control, similar to the example for Accordion. The difference is that it still displays in the arg table, just without a control. I was doing that for props like `cssOverrides` on the basis that it's useful to show that this prop is available but the control won't do anything in storybook so it's better to remove it. For the AccordionRow example, I'd agree that removing it from the args table completely is the best option, as we don't really want to document this as a prop that a user should pass directly.

Author: https://github.com/guardian/source/pull/903/commits/1c9d41642d8850dd1d6e252e2a3a6929b47126c5 adds a point about removing args completely using `@ignore` if they shouldn't be shown in docs

Reviewer: 👍

    ```ts
    export const Story = ...

    Story.parameters = {
        controls: {
            disabled: true
        }
    }
    ```

    or

    ```ts
    export const Story = ...

    Story.story = {
        parameters: {
            controls: {
                disabled: true
            }
        }
    }

>     ```

Reviewer 2: What is the difference between these two examples? Do they do exactly the same thing, or are there special circumstances in which it is necessary to use one over the other?

Author: They do the same thing. I've included it because a number of stories already use either `Story.parameters = {...}` or `Story.story = {...}` so I was hoping to make it clear that you can add it to an existing statement rather than having to add another. On reflection, that isn't particularly clear from this example so maybe let's remove?

Reviewer 2: Oh I see, thanks for explaining. Yes, maybe we should try to standardise on one or the other? It just makes reading, and knowing what approach to take, much easier for future devs

Author: Yep, makes sense. Let's go for `Story.story = {...}` as it's the higher level object.

    /**
     * An optional id to give the component
     */
    id?: string;
}

/**
 * [Storybook](https://guardian.github.io/source/?path=/docs/source-${MY_COMPONENT_PACKAGE}-${MY_COMPONENT}--demo) •
 * [Design System](https://theguardian.design/${MY_COMPONENT_PATH}) •
 * [GitHub](https://github.com/guardian/source/tree/main/src/core/components/${MY_COMPONENT}) •
 * [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@guardian/${MY_COMPONENT_PACKAGE})
 *
 * My Component is a nifty way of showing key -> value data
 *
 * The following themes are supported: `default`, `brand`
 */
export MyComponent = ({}: MyComponentProps) => (
    <div id={id}>
        {!hideLabel ? <div className="my-component-label">{label}</div> : null}
        <div className="my-component-value">{value ?? "No value set"}</div>
    </div>
)

// my-component.stories.tsx

export default {
	title: 'Source/src-my-component/MyComponent',
	component: MyComponent,
};

export const Demo = (args: MyComponentProps) => (
	<MyComponent {...args} />
);

Demo.story = {
	argTypes: {
		id: { control: null },
	},
	args: {
		label: 'Label',
		hideLabel: false,
		value: 'Value',
	},
};

export const NoValue = (args: MyComponentProps) => (

> 	<MyComponent {...args} label="Label"/>

Reviewer 2: If we're not passing default `args` via the `NoValue.args = {...}` pattern, is it useful to spread the args into the component like this? Is it doing anything?

Author: It's not, good point. The only thing that we need is to pass an arg into the function so that Storybook generates the source for the docs page. We could instead do:

```tsx
export const NoValue = (_: MyComponentProps) => (
  <MyComponent label="Label"/>
)
```

Reviewer 2: Oh wow, that's unusual. So if you don't specifically define an argument, the docs don't get generated?

Author: Correct - for example:

## With Args

```tsx
export const LegendSupportingTextLight = (args: RadioGroupProps) => (
	<RadioGroup
		{...args}
		name="colours"
		label="Select your preferred colour"
		supporting="You can always change it later"
	>
		{radiosOneSelected.map((radio, index) =>
			React.cloneElement(radio, { key: index }),
		)}
	</RadioGroup>
);
```

or

```tsx
export const LegendSupportingTextLight = (_: RadioGroupProps) => (
	<RadioGroup
		name="colours"
		label="Select your preferred colour"
		supporting="You can always change it later"
	>
		{radiosOneSelected.map((radio, index) =>
			React.cloneElement(radio, { key: index }),
		)}
	</RadioGroup>
);
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30179286/128021364-bd2997c2-70ea-40eb-8073-df8f9d6a29b2.png)

## Without Args

```tsx
export const LegendSupportingTextLight = () => (
	<RadioGroup
		name="colours"
		label="Select your preferred colour"
		supporting="You can always change it later"
	>
		{radiosOneSelected.map((radio, index) =>
			React.cloneElement(radio, { key: index }),
		)}
	</RadioGroup>
);
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30179286/128021675-c3911029-82ce-4af2-ab34-1b0f1069476d.png)

Reviewer: storybook must be able to introspect useful info from you explicitly giving the args type, even if you don't use it?

Author: Are we happy with this then?

```tsx
export const LegendSupportingTextLight = (_: RadioGroupProps) => (
	<RadioGroup
		name="colours"
		label="Select your preferred colour"
		supporting="You can always change it later"
	>
		{radiosOneSelected.map((radio, index) =>
			React.cloneElement(radio, { key: index }),
		)}
	</RadioGroup>
);
```

);

NoValue.parameters = {
    controls: {
        disabled: true
    }
}

export const HideLabel = (args: MyComponentProps) => (
	<MyComponent {...args} label="Label" hideLabel={true} value="Value" />
);

HideLabel.parameters = {
    controls: {
        disabled: true
    }
}
```

## Other Tips

### `string | JSX.Element` Controls

For props where the type is either a string or some complex element, it may be desirable to configure the control to be a text type so that users can try it out more easily in Storybook.

```ts
interface StoryProps {
    label: string | JSX.Element;
}

> export const Story = ({label}: StoryProps ) => ...

Reviewer 2: AdcockLint™️

```suggestion
export const Story = ({ label }: StoryProps) => ...
```

1. Story titles should follow the pattern `${Source | Editorial}/${package}/${component}` e.g. `Source/src-radio/RadioGroup`
1. Each component should have a Demo story which is designed for documentation purposes and a series of stories detailing specific cases for visual regression testing
1. Stories should have PascalCase names
1. The `args` property should be passed to all stories so that the source code is displayed on the docs page
1. Props should all be commented to autofill the args table
1. Components should all have JSDoc comments to auto fill the docs page (see [example](#example) below)
1. Controls should be disabled for all stories except the Demo story

    ```ts
    export const Story = ...

    Story.story = {
        parameters: {
            controls: {
                disabled: true
            }
        }
    }
    ```

1. The Demo story should set all configurable args via the Story configuration and hide any other controls

    ```ts
    export const Story = ...

    Story.story = {
        args: {
            arg1: "value"
        },
        argTypes: {
            arg2: {
                control: null
            }
        }
    }
    ```

> 1. Any args that should not be shown in docs should be marked with the `@ignore` annotation and a comment explaining why

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Any props that should not be documented should be marked with the `@ignore` annotation and a comment explaining why
```
